well howdy there I don't have people
it's Bo again so I've had questions
message to me from young men asking me
what advice I give my kids my sons well
first there there's no right way to live
your life somebody will always have
something to say about it ignore them
they mean nothing I guess it's pretty
important to understand that you're not
getting out of life alive if you think
you are we probably need to talk about
that rather than general life advice in
that vein don't shirk away from
adventures I'd suggest the experiences
of life are more important than the
material good and bad experiences
embrace them all learn from them all
experience them all some experiences
have an expiration date when I was 17 or
so I knut a couple hundred miles down
this river it's pretty defining I tried
to recreate that experience later in
life I've been on that River a dozen
times since was never the same that
adventure took place when the world was
still new to me
I hadn't seen as much so have your
adventures when you're young they'll
mean more I don't regret many things
I've done in my life I regret the things
that didn't do its the risks I didn't
take that I remember anything worthwhile
will have some risk associated with it
it could be physical it could be
emotional it could be psychological or
it could be that all devastating blow to
your ego don't go through your life
without getting hurt only experiencing
the life available within the bell curve
it's just a waste of oxygen take advice
but let nobody especially your current
friends
determine who you get to be the only
thing worse than the decisions you'll
make when you're younger is the
decisions made by a group of people your
age be selective with who you call
friend for the term to have any meaning
you have to be willing to put it all on
the line for them and then for you
your attitude is more important than
anything if you live a full life you'll
find yourself down you'll find yourself
beat up you'll find yourself in bad
situations keep moving forward never
stop improving yourself even when it
seems pointless when it comes to love
love who you want how you want don't let
your heart ignore your head or your head
ignore your heart but certainly ignore
your friends don't let your peers
influence who you love they don't have
it anymore figured out than you do
using the consensus of people you won't
see in five years or ten years to
determine who you spend the rest of your
life with well that's just stupid
at some point somebody will rip your
heart out and stomp on it cool if it
never happens you failed at love at some
point somebody you are completely
infatuated with will not be interested
in you move on
I don't even chase my whiskey' remain
forever curious about everything no
knowledge is wasted and that knowledge
that you gained should change you if you
can't look back on the person you were
five years ago
and see a marked change you've wasted
those five years beyond the
philosophical and political strive to
develop your skillset as much as
possible skills beget independence and
Independence baguettes freedom
the answers are only important if you
ask the right question don't let others
frame your thought always ask the bigger
question that's being ignored and it
doesn't matter what you believe your
beliefs mean absolutely nothing if you
don't act on them make the move to
uplift all people don't be afraid of
competition putting someone else down
doesn't actually elevate your position
and remember that you will change the
world that's not some motivational
cliche the choices you make will shape
the world make sure you consider that
when you're making them at some point in
your life you'll be tested on a deep
level remember just as every other
moment in your life your entire life
prepared you for it it all led up to
that the advice for my daughter it's the
same anyway it's just a thought y'all
have a good night